COBOL

1. Diff b/w next sentence and continue statement?
2. What is the use 66 and 88 levels in COBOL?
3. What is static call and dynamic call?
4. Differentiate between subscript and index in COBOL?
5. What is meant by an IN-LINE PERFORM?
6. What are the different types of perform used?
7. What is the difference b/w comp and comp-3?
8. What is Redefines clause?

JCL

A jcl has 3 steps and if i want to skip 2 step what is the process to do that?


1. How can you check if a file is empty using JCL?

Ans - When the file is used as input in IDCAMS, job completes with a warning (return code 4) if the file is empty.

2. A JCL has 4 steps and job abends in step2. How to restart the job from step2?

Ans - Add restart parameter in job card, RESTART = STEP2

3. What are the ways of passing data to a COBOL program from JCL?

Ans - Data can be passed to a COBOL program through files, PARM parameter and SYSIN DD statement.

4. What is GDG?

Generation Data Group is a group of chronologically or functionally related datasets. 
GDGs are processed periodically, often by adding a new generation, retaining previous generations, 
and sometimes discarding the oldest generation.

5. What is COND=EVEN ?

Ans - It means execute this step even if any of the previous steps, terminated abnormally.

6.  What is the difference between specifying DISP=OLD and DISP=SHR for a dataset?

Ans - DISP=OLD denotes exclusive control of the dataset; DISP=SHR means there is no exclusivity.

7. What are the symbolic parameters and what is the symbol of it?

Ans - In general, a parameter should be regarded as symbolic if it changes with each program execution.

8. Explain the difference between JOBLIB and the STEPLIB statements.

Ans - In Job Control Language or JCL, JOBLIB specifies a library of programs or procedures that are 
      available for all the steps within a job. STEPLIB specifies a library of programs or procedures 
      that are specifically available to a particular job step.

9. Which utility is used to run a COBOL-DB2 Program?

Ans - IKJEFT01

10. What is the use of INCLUDE and OMIT statement in sort?

Ans - Include records and omit records


11. If a dataset have 20 records and needs to be split into files. How will it work?


VSAM

1. What are the different types of VSAM datasets?

Ans - KSDS,ESDS,LDS,RRDS

2. What is an alternate index?

Ans - An alternate index is a file that allows access to a VSAM dataset by a key other than the primary one.

3. Do primary key values and alternate key values have to be unique?

Ans - Primary key values must be unique and alternate key values need not be unique.

4. What is the use of ALTER command in VSAM?

Ans - ALTER command is used to change most of the VSAM dataset attributes that were specified while defining VSAM cluster.

5. What are a few of the VSAM File status codes?

Listed below are the common file status codes:

00: The operation was successful.
04: Fixed length record was invalid.
20: The key for KSDS or RRDS is invalid.
22: Duplicate primary key found.
23: Error locating the record or file.
30: Permanent I/O fault.
38: Attempting to open a locked file.
91: Invalid password or authorization.
93: Resources are unavailable.
95: Invalid or incomplete file information.
98: File Locked- Failed to open the file.
99: Record Locked - Failed to access record, etc.

6. What is the use of Repro command?

Ans - It loads and copies data from one VSAM to another.


DB2


1. What is DCLGEN in DB2?

DCLGEN stands for Declarations generator. The programs that we write should declare the tables and views that it accesses

2. What is a CURSOR and What is the use of it?

CURSOR is a programming device that is used to find a set of rows corresponding to a SELECT statement. 
However, the rows are displayed one at a time

3.Write a Query to find the number of rows in a DB2 table.

Here, the interviewer might ask you to write down the query on a piece of paper or a google doc or any other method. Mostly, the interviewers do not ask you to write a query upon a pre-existing table. 

The query is:  SELECT COUNT * FROM tablename

4.What is the picture clause of Null Indicator variable?

S9(4) COMP is the picture clause of a null indicator.

5. When you will face SQLCODE -803?

When you will try to insert or update a record with duplicate key then you will face SQLCODE = -803.

6. What happens in BIND step in a DB2 program?

Bind step converts all the SQL statements into executable form in COBOL-DB2 program.

7. When you will face SQLCODE -911?

At the time of deadlock or timeout you will face SQLCODE -911.


CICS

1.What is a mapset?

Mapset is a collection of maps which are linked edited together to form a load module. 
It should have a PPT entry. It can have names from 1 to 7 chars.

2. What are the differences between an EXEC CICS XCTL and an EXEC CICS LINK command?

The XCTL command transfers the control to an application program at the same logical level and it does not 
expect the control back, while the LINK command passes the control to an application program at the next logical 
level and expects the control back.

3. Into which table is the terminal id registered?

Terminal Control Table.

What is meant by PPT and what are its uses?

PPT (Program Processing Table): – It consists of a list that has all the names of the programs in it along with maps. 
Furthermore, it tells us whether the version that is absolutely recent as available as a program in CICS or a
 fresh copy of the program is supposed to be loaded.

4. Differentiate between PCT and FCT.

PCT stands for Program Control Table and it has a complete list of transaction identifiers that are paired to respective corresponding programs.
FCT, on the other hand, stands for File Control Table has a complete list of all the files that have been used by CICS along with their status and record length.


5. Give the definition of COMMAREA ?

COMMAREA is commonly termed as a communication area as it happens to be for temporary storage area. 
It is used as a passing medium for data amongst multiple programs that are loaded by a set of transactions or a 
particular transaction.
















 